update English guide (#59)
espaces-marx/ai-radicals: guide_en.md

### Beware of data bleeding across conversations

On some platforms, providers enable "*long-term memory*" or shared context across all your conversations by default.

>**Concrete example:** If, in one conversation, you explain that you're an accountant in order to solve a spreadsheet problem, and then, three days later, in a *different* conversation, you ask it to draft a leaflet calling for a strike, the AI may bring back arguments heavily focused on figures or financial balance sheets. That's not necessarily the political angle you were looking for in a general call to action.

To avoid this kind of interference and keep control over your content, two good practices are essential:

**Turn off global memory** or cross-conversation context sharing in the tool's settings if it's enabled by default.

**Compartmentalize your workspaces**: Get into the habit of opening **a new conversation for each distinct topic, project, or task**. As soon as a task is finished, or you switch to a different frame of mind, open a new "*chat*" to start again from a neutral baseline.

### Organizing shared context by project

> Conversely, it's sometimes very useful for the AI to retain a specific set of information across several discussions related to the same project (for example: your outlet's editorial guidelines, the key talking points of a mobilization campaign, or the facts of a local case file).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> For this, most professional tools now offer dedicated features (often called "*Projects*," "*Custom GPTs*," or "*Workspaces*"). These let you upload your reference documents or style guidelines once and for all. The AI will then systematically draw on that shared foundation every time you open a conversation within that space, without you needing to re-explain everything each time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### General context

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to manage context
```

Imagine that every time you talk with an AI, you're speaking to a temp secretary. If global memory is turned off, they forget everything the moment you close the notebook (the conversation). But today, despite the absence of global memory, there are tools that let this secretary "*remember*" only the pieces of context you want, from one conversation to the next.

#### "*Custom instructions*"

This is a kind of profile sheet you fill out once (e.g., "*I'm an activist, I like a direct tone, not too bureaucratic*"), found in the AI's general settings. This profile is automatically taken into account in every new conversation.

#### Connecting to your Google tools

> The AI can connect (if you allow it) to the tools you use every day: your Drive or your email. Its "*context*" then becomes your own workspace. You can tell it: "*Pull up the notes from yesterday's meeting document and summarize them for me.*"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AI can connect (if you allow it) to the tools you use every day: for example your Drive or your email. Its "*context*" then becomes the elements you ask it to access within your own workspace. You can tell it: "*Pull up the notes from yesterday's meeting document and summarize them for me.*"
```

- The more things there are to change and clarify, the further you get into defining the task and the work, the harder it becomes for this loose form to stay sufficiently clear.

### Prompts structured in paragraphs

Let's continue with the same example. The previous output was disappointing, so we start a new conversation and think about a better prompt. At the same time, we now have a better idea of what kind of result would actually be useful for the purpose of the work. We now want:

- 5 examples of social movements that led to a wage increase
- From a period between the 19th century and today
- These movements must include either a strike or another element that concretely threatened capitalist profits
- Each example's presentation must include: a start and end date, the location, the company and industry, information on the size of the wage gain (if available), the form the mobilization took, and a short description

That's starting to add up to a fair amount of information! We'll need to give the prompt a bit more structure so our instructions stay clear and the whole thing remains easy for the program to interpret. Let's try to fit it all in:

> >  "*Create a list of 5 historical examples of social movements that led to a wage increase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>  "Create a list of 5 historical examples of social movements that led to a wage increase.
```

>
>  These examples must fall between the 19th century and today; the social movements selected must include either a strike or another form of action that concretely threatened the profits of the capitalists tied to the company or industry involved.
>

> >  Present each example with at least the movement's start and end date, the company and industry, a short description, the form the mobilization took, and the wage increase obtained, when that information is known.*"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>  Present each example with at least the movement's start and end date, the company and industry, a short description, the form the mobilization took, and the wage increase obtained, when that information is known."
```

What structure is being used here? We could sum up the purpose of each paragraph like this:

> >  "*General task instruction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>  "General task instruction
```

>
>  Constraints on carrying out the task
>

> >  Output text format*"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>  Output text format"
```

We can be more explicit by directly adding the role of each part at the start of each paragraph:

> >  "*Task: Create a list...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>  "Task: Create a list...
```

>
>  Constraints: These examples must...
>

> >  Format: Present each example...*"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>  Format: Present each example..."
```

### What tools should you use if your team doesn't have a graphic designer?

Not every activist organization is lucky enough to have a graphic designer in its ranks, and it's precisely in that situation that AI can be the most useful. It doesn't replace a professional's skills, but it does let you produce decent visuals on your own, without having to set aside a significant budget or constantly rely on someone outside the group. The landscape of image generators moves fast, but a few tools stand out clearly in 2026, each with its own strengths, level of accessibility, and audience.

#### DALL-E (via ChatGPT or Bing Image Creator)

This is the simplest entry point. No setup required -- plain-language prompts are enough to get a decent result. The tool is built directly into ChatGPT (including its free version, via Bing Image Creator), making it accessible without a dedicated account. Its real strength is text rendering: it places text accurately on visuals, making it a good choice for a poster or visual that includes a slogan. **Skill level required:** beginner, no technical skills needed. **Access:** free with a ChatGPT account or via bing.com/images/create.

#### Midjourney

> This is the reference point for aesthetic and artistic quality. Access is through an official Discord server: just create a free Discord account, join the Midjourney server, then type the /imagine command followed by your description in a dedicated channel. The Discord-based interface can be confusing at first, but once you understand the basic command, it's easy to use. This is the tool of choice for a poster or visual that needs strong aesthetic impact (event illustration, campaign visual). **Skill level required:** beginner to intermediate (the basic command is simple, but refining a result takes some practice). **Access:** paid only, between $10 and $60 a month depending on how many images you need -- a cost worth pooling across an organization rather than putting on one person.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the reference point for aesthetic and artistic quality. Access is through an official Discord server: just create a free Discord account, join the Midjourney server, then type the /imagine command followed by your description in a dedicated channel. The Discord-based interface can be confusing at first, but once you understand the basic command, it's easy to use. This is the tool of choice for a poster or visual that needs strong aesthetic impact (event illustration, campaign visual). **Skill level required:** beginner to intermediate (the basic command is simple, but refining a result takes some practice). **Access:** paid only, between $10 and $60 a month depending on how many images you need.

#### Ideogram

An interesting alternative specifically when text needs to appear legibly and precisely within the image (a logo, poster title, or featured slogan). For typography-focused work, Ideogram is considered unmatched compared to other tools. **Skill level required:** beginner. **Access:** free with a limited number of daily generations, via ideogram.ai.

#### What should you prioritize?

For an activist organization on a limited budget, the most reasonable combination is often: DALL-E or Bing Image Creator for one-off needs and brainstorming (free), Ideogram if a visual needs clean text (free), and possibly a shared Midjourney subscription within the collective if you need regular, high-impact visuals (campaign posters, recurring social media visuals).

# Conclusion

> You've reached the end of this booklet. We hope you enjoyed reading it, or at least that it was useful to you. If so, we also have something to ask of you. As we said in the introduction, the version of the guide you're holding is very preliminary. In our view, there's still a lot to add, perhaps to remove, to correct, to enrich. With that in mind, the first criterion we care about is usefulness for activists; your feedback, after reading, is therefore very important. You can write to us at contact@espaces-marx.eu with any comments, criticism, or suggestions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You've reached the end of this booklet. We hope you enjoyed reading it, or at least that it was useful to you. If so, we also have something to ask of you. As we said in the introduction, the version of the guide you're holding is still a work in progress. In our view, there's a lot to add, perhaps to remove, to correct, to enrich. With that in mind, the first criterion we care about is usefulness for activists; your feedback, after reading, is therefore very important. You can write to us at contact@espaces-marx.eu with any comments, criticism, or suggestions.
```

2. Despite their wide reach, these tools are not adopted equally across the population, with usage patterns that vary sharply by class -- obviously -- but also by age or place of residence, since new technologies spread much more slowly in peripheral areas than in urban centers.

We believe that the radical left must collectively take command of AI. The stakes are technical -- working more efficiently -- but also political, in the sense of the struggle itself. The ease with which we use twenty-first century tools will build our credibility, give confidence to our own side, and, at the same time, discourage our adversaries: liberals, the far right, and so on. After all, it is never exciting to feel outpaced, archaic.

That is the spirit of this guide. It is designed so that anyone can pick it up, with or without prior technical knowledge, and progress quickly. We wanted it to be useful for beginners and experienced users alike, including descriptions of advanced techniques to make the most of the advantages AI offers.

> The version we are publishing today is a very preliminary version of the guide. Many things are imperfect or incomplete. Our intention is to improve it as our work progresses and as comrades give us feedback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This second version of the guide we are publishing today is still imperfect and incomplete. Our intention is to improve it as our work progresses and as comrades give us feedback.
```

**"*Hallucinations*."** What does this mean? In a word, because AI programs are statistical in nature but their calculations operate on human language, many kinds of errors are possible. When calculating the most probable response to a message, the result returned can be plausible without being true. Generating fake quotes or fake references (fake book titles, for instance) falls squarely into this category.

**AI-generated text can reproduce the biases present in its training data.** Since AI models base their knowledge of language on huge amounts of text produced by real people, they also import certain biases along with it. This can mean many things: that this data may reflect the social conditions under which it was produced, that racist or sexist prejudices may exert an influence within it, or that it may be colored by the dominant ideology, a perspective centered on wealthy countries, and so on.

> **AI models are produced by the large corporations and states that have the means to do so, and they partly reflect those actors' worldview.** Because it requires enormous amounts of labor, infrastructure, and energy, training and deploying a large AI model is within reach of very few organizations. The best-known models belong to, or are directly controlled by, superpowers and publicly traded companies. After the training phase, future AI models go through a so-called "*alignment*" phase, which corresponds both to removing certain biases present in the data and, just as clearly, to political arbitration. From one model to the next, the overall tone shifts in political coloring, following that of its owners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**AI models are produced by the large corporations and states that have the means to do so, and they partly reflect those actors' worldview.** Because it requires enormous amounts of labor, infrastructure, and energy, training and deploying a large AI model is within reach of very few organizations. The best-known models belong to, or are directly controlled by, the dominant companies in the digital sector. After the training phase, future AI models go through a so-called "*alignment*" phase, which corresponds both to removing certain biases present in the data and, just as clearly, to political arbitration. From one model to the next, the overall tone shifts in political coloring, following that of its owners.
```

### First interaction: asking a simple question

AI works like a conversation. To start, ask it a clear, specific question. For example:

- "*Can you explain simply what inflation is?*"
- "*Help me draft a leaflet for a protest against layoffs.*"
- "*What are the arguments against pension reform?*"

Once you've gotten a response, you can react to its content by replying in turn: it's an interactive exchange.

### Example exchange:

- **You**: "*I'm preparing a meeting on social housing. Can you list 5 arguments against privatizing public housing?*"
- **The AI**: "*Here are 5 key arguments: 1) Rising rents, 2) Exclusion of low-income households, 3) Real-estate speculation, 4) Loss of social mix, 5) State withdrawal. Would you like me to expand on any one point?*"

You can then ask it to go deeper, rephrase, or generate a longer text.

## Context: words matter

When you start a conversation with an AI, the tool doesn't analyze your requests in isolation. Everything you write (your "*prompts*") and everything the machine replies is kept in a short-term memory, called the **context window**, for the entire duration of the conversation.

> Since AI works by calculating probabilities based on language, **every word you use matters**. A term chosen at the start of a discussion will influence, color, and steer all subsequent responses. If you start with a very formal, institutional tone, the AI will tend to keep it going afterward, even if you later ask it to write a punchy slogan for a flyer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since AI works by calculating probabilities based on language, **every word you use matters**. A term chosen at the start of a discussion will influence, color, and steer all subsequent responses. If you start with a very formal, institutional tone, the AI will tend to keep it going afterward, sometimes even if you later ask it to write a punchy slogan for a flyer.
```

### Beware of data bleeding across conversations

On some platforms, providers enable "*long-term memory*" or shared context across all your conversations by default.

>**Concrete example:** If, in one conversation, you explain that you're an accountant in order to solve a spreadsheet problem, and then, three days later, in a *different* conversation, you ask it to draft a leaflet calling for a strike, the AI may bring back arguments heavily focused on figures or financial balance sheets. That's not necessarily the political angle you were looking for in a general call to action.

To avoid this kind of interference and keep control over your content, two good practices are essential:

**Turn off global memory** or cross-conversation context sharing in the tool's settings if it's enabled by default.

**Compartmentalize your workspaces**: Get into the habit of opening **a new conversation for each distinct topic, project, or task**. As soon as a task is finished, or you switch to a different frame of mind, open a new "*chat*" to start again from a neutral baseline.

> ### Organizing shared context by project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
